What is Smart Contract?
Smart contract is a collection of codes that resides on the ethereum blockchain at a specific address.
it can store data, send and receive ether, and also enforce rule stipulated in the contract without an entity controlling its output.
This is written in solidity, which is the programmiing language used for ethereum ecosystem.
The ethereum virtual machine is a computer isolated from the real world, which exist and runs across thousands of nodes. This is where smart contracts 
are executed, after being compiled into bytecode stored on the blockchain - these are sequences of 1 and 0 which the evm can read and understand.
When a node calls/executes a function/transaction, the data is loaded and the evm reads the code that exist in the contract address where its loaded onto stack, memory or storage from calldata. 
These operations all use gas during their execution, as the ethereum ecosystem rewards participants who validates transctions.
Gas is a unit of measurement of computation power that a certain task called is perfomed by the EVM.This ensures that the evm is not abused or strained unecessarily.



smart contract characteristics : smart contract typically consist of :
state variables - these are variables used to store data in a contract. Each contract address 
is assigned it own state variable for data storage that is nested from others. this ensures data privacy.
The state variable can be of type uint address,value,structs and mappings. This database storage for each contract can be 
permanent - which is stored in the state variable where accessibility is not limited to a function but the whole contract
transient storage - which is not for permanent storage, but works within a contract across several fuctions
working with single data. This means that other functions can work with the data loaded in the transient storage,
granted that it is working on the same transaction. Once the transaction task has been fufilled, the storage gets cleared.
Memory is also a type of temporary storage that is used to load data inside of a single function and only that. it is cleared after it has been used.
functions are used to perform operation within the contract, such as executing transaction, setting variables, etc.
Emit log/events are nofication that is broadcast whenever changes are made to the contract state.

